---
title: Conditionals and Loops
description: Learning conditionals and loops
img: /loop.png
author:
  name: Andrew
  bio: hello :)
---

# Conditionals and Loops

Below are more directives.
* v-bind 
* v-if
* v-for
* v-on


### v-if & v-else
* conditional directive which is used to conditionally render a block.
* the block will only be rendered if the directive's expression returns true
* using v-if, you can simply toggle the boolean in our data property inline, instead of having to write a separate method, then call that method when the event gets fired.

### v-for and v-bind (one way binding)
* v-for is similar to a for-each loop in java
* How to Use v-for: <v-for="item in items" v-bind:key"item.index" >
* To use v-for, we need to assign a key value to each object to identify a particular object.
* To do so, we use v-bind: v-for="" v-bind:key"item.index"
* we could use colon(:) to represent v-bind
  1. for ex, v-for("") v-bind:key="" :age="item.name"
  2. v-bind is equal to colon(:)
  3. when colon(:) is used to represent v-bind directive, a line of code within
     quotes are becomes javascript. Without it, it is just a string.
  4. IMPORTANT**** Lets users bind an HTML attribute to a JavaScript expression

### v-on
* It's directive to listen to events and run some JavaScript when they're triggered.
  1. v-on is equal to @
  2. for ex, @click="someMethod"
  3. @click.stop prevents event bubbling.
  

### Props
* props are custom attributes you can register on a component. When a value is passed
  to a prop attribute, it becomes a property on that component instance.
* IMPORTANT*** Basically, props are how we pass data between components: from parent component
  to child component.
* Props are only in a child component to received the data from a parent component.

### emit
    * From a child component to a parent componenet
    * syntax: this.$emit(event(String), value)
